docs: document etcd backups (#2072)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/cluster-management/backup-restore/enable-etcd-backup.md

---
sidebar_label: "Configure etcd Backup"
title: "Configure etcd Backup"
description: "Learn how to enable scheduled etcd backups."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 45
tags: ["clusters", "cluster management", "backup"]
---

etcd backups are enabled by default and backups are performed on each etcd node. You can adjust the backup frequency,
the location of the backup files, and the maximum number of backup files to retain by editing the YAML file of your
cluster profile's Kubernetes layer.

## Prerequisite

- An active cluster in Palette.

## Configure etcd Backup

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com).

2. From the **Main Menu**, select **Profiles**.

3. Select the profile you use to deploy clusters. And then, select the Kubernetes layer of your profile.

4. Edit the YAML file of your Kubernetes layer and add the following configurations. Depending on your Kubernetes
   distribution, different configuration parameters are available.

>     <Tabs group="distribution">

Reviewer: Lenny, do you know by chance if Microk8s also has this ability?

Author: I asked boobalan, and he said that he isn't sure about microk8s. I also see that microk8s uses dqlite3 instead of etcd for data store by default so this might not apply at all. I will ask akhilesh as well to make sure

   | `cluster.config.etcd-snapshot-schedule-cron` | A cron expression that controls the time and frequency of scheduled backups. For example, the default value `0 */1 * * *` means the scheduled backup runs every hour. |
   | `cluster.config.etcd-snapshot-retention`     | The maximum number of etcd backups to retain.                                                                                                                         |
   | `cluster.config.etcd-disable-snapshots`      | Controls whether or not to disable scheduled etcd snapshots.                                                                                                          |
   | `cluster.config.etcd-snapshot-dir`           | Specifies the directory where the etcd snapshots are saved. By default, this value is `/var/lib/k3s/rancher/server/db/snapshots`.                                     |

   For example,

   ```yaml
   cluster:
     config:
       etcd-snapshot-schedule-cron: 0 */1 * * *
       etcd-snapshot-retention: 12
       etcd-disable-snapshots: false
       etcd-snapshot-dir: /var/lib/rancher/k3s/server/db/snapshots
   ```

    </TabItem>

    </Tabs>

> 

Reviewer: I think we need to add a step that calls out, either update your active cluster profile and link to the cluster update page. Or, if you have not deployed a cluster yet, go ahead and deploy a cluster. That way we provide guidance on the next step to the user.

## Validate

> To validate the snapshots are successfully configured, connect to the cluster via SSH and change into the directory

Reviewer: Lenny, should we be more specific about mentioning what cluster node to connect to? I'm thinking control plane nodes versus worker nodes. The other point is about snapshot replication, does each control plane node have the snapshot or is it only the etcd leader?

where the etcd snapshots are saved. Confirm that the snapshots are being created in the directory.

## Next Steps

If your cluster experiences data corruption issues, you can use the etcd snapshots to restore the cluster to working

> conditions. Restoring a cluster is a complicated procedure that requires SSH access to the node and intimate knowledge
> of etcd. We strongly suggest you contact us for assistance at support@spectrocloud.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
conditions. Restoring a cluster may be a challenging procedure, depending on your experience and technical skill level. The restoration also requires SSH access to the node and intimate knowledge
of etcd. If you have concerns or need assistance, contact us [support@spectrocloud.com](mailto:support@spectrocloud.com) for additional guidance.
```
Lenny, I took a stab at rephrasing this to make it more clear that it "may be" challenging for some. I also think support would appriciate if we didn't come out of the gate stating "We strongly suggest ...." , but rather left the door open 😅

---
sidebar_label: "Configure etcd Backup"
title: "Configure etcd Backup"
description: "Learn how to enable scheduled etcd backups."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 45
tags: ["clusters", "cluster management", "backup"]
---

etcd backups are enabled by default and backups are performed on each etcd node. You can adjust the backup frequency,
the location of the backup files, and the maximum number of backup files to retain by editing the YAML file of your
cluster profile's Kubernetes layer.

## Prerequisite

> - An active cluster in Palette using PXK, PXK-E, RKE2, or K3S as its Kubernetes layer.

Author: ```suggestion
- An active cluster in Palette using PXK, PXK-E, RKE2, or K3s as its Kubernetes layer.
```
